CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE.md, before:

# Exp.No:19  
## CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE

---

### AIM  
To write a Python program to take the radius from the user and find the area of a circle using the class name `umbrella` and function name `rain`.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Create a class named `umbrella`.  
3. Define a method `rain(self, r)` inside the class `umbrella` that accepts a radius `r` as an argument.  
4. Inside the `rain` method:  
   - Calculate the area of a circle using the formula:  
     \[ \text{Area} = \pi \times r^2 \]  
   - Use the `math.pi` constant to get the value of π and perform the calculation.  
   - Print the result, formatted to two decimal places.  
5. Prompt the user for an integer input to represent the radius of the circle.  
6. Create an instance of the `umbrella` class and store it in the variable `u`.  
7. Call the `rain` method of the `umbrella` class, passing the user-provided radius `r` as an argument.  
8. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```



```

### OUTPUT



### RESULT

Commit message:

Update CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE.md

CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE.md, after:

# Exp.No:4a
## CLASS AND OBJECTS - AREA OF CIRCLE

---

### AIM  
To write a Python program to take the radius from the user and find the area of a circle using the class name `umbrella` and function name `rain`.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Create a class named `umbrella`.  
3. Define a method `rain(self, r)` inside the class `umbrella` that accepts a radius `r` as an argument.  
4. Inside the `rain` method:  
   - Calculate the area of a circle using the formula:  
     \[ \text{Area} = \pi \times r^2 \]  
   - Use the `math.pi` constant to get the value of π and perform the calculation.  
   - Print the result, formatted to two decimal places.  
5. Prompt the user for an integer input to represent the radius of the circle.  
6. Create an instance of the `umbrella` class and store it in the variable `u`.  
7. Call the `rain` method of the `umbrella` class, passing the user-provided radius `r` as an argument.  
8. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```python
class saveetha:
    def slot(self,r):
        area=3.1416*r*r
        print(f"Area of circle: {area:.2f}")
r=float(input())
obj=saveetha()
obj.slot(r)
```

### OUTPUT
<img width="1184" height="240" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/66549f85-20eb-4a7b-a1b9-f92b9207d566" />

### RESULT
Therefore, the output is the example to write a Python program to take the radius from the user and find the area of a circle using the class name `umbrella` and function name `rain`.
