EXCEPTION HANDLING.md, before:

# Exp.No:17  
## EXCEPTION HANDLING

---

### AIM  
To create a Python program that prompts the user for a list of grades separated by commas, splits the string into individual grades, and uses exception handling to inform the user if the values they entered cannot be converted to integers.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Read a string `input_str` from the user using `input()`.  
3. Split the input string using commas (`,`) to create a list of grades.  
4. Use a `try` block to attempt converting each item in the grades list to an integer and store the result in `l1`.  
5. If the conversion is successful, print the list `l1` containing the integer values.  
6. If an error occurs during conversion (for example, if the input is not a valid number), catch the exception and print an error message: `"The grades you entered were in an invalid format."` along with the original grades list.  
7. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```
Reg.No
Name
Add Your Code Here

```

### OUTPUT

### RESULT

Commit message:

Revise exception handling example in EXCEPTION HANDLING.md
Updated exception handling example in Python, including user input and error handling.

EXCEPTION HANDLING.md, after:

# Exp.No:4c
## EXCEPTION HANDLING

---

### AIM  
To create a Python program that prompts the user for a list of grades separated by commas, splits the string into individual grades, and uses exception handling to inform the user if the values they entered cannot be converted to integers.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Read a string `input_str` from the user using `input()`.  
3. Split the input string using commas (`,`) to create a list of grades.  
4. Use a `try` block to attempt converting each item in the grades list to an integer and store the result in `l1`.  
5. If the conversion is successful, print the list `l1` containing the integer values.  
6. If an error occurs during conversion (for example, if the input is not a valid number), catch the exception and print an error message: `"The grades you entered were in an invalid format."` along with the original grades list.  
7. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```python
Reg.No:212223060150
Name:MANJUSHRI RG
Add Your Code Here

try:
    a=int(input())
    b=int(input())
    print(a+b)
except:
    print("cannot add integer with string")
```

### OUTPUT
<img width="1187" height="341" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/02bf2601-e00f-46d0-b1d6-0c2812ec3a99" />

### RESULT
Therefore, the output is the example to create a Python program that prompts the user for a list of grades separated by commas, splits the string into individual grades, and uses exception handling to inform the user if the values they entered cannot be converted to integers.
