FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE.md, before:

# Exp.No:18  
## FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE

---

### AIM  
To write a Python program that reads a file and counts the frequency of each character in it.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Define the function `create_file()` that accepts two arguments:  
   - `file_path`: The path to the file.  
   - `content`: The string content to be written into the file.  
3. Open the file specified by `file_path` in write mode (`'w'`), and write the provided `content` into the file.  
4. Close the file (this is automatically done when exiting the `with` block).  
5. Define the function `character_frequency()` that accepts one argument:  
   - `file_path`: The path to the file whose character frequency is to be calculated.  
6. Open the file specified by `file_path` in read mode (`'r'`), and read its content into the variable `content`.  
7. Initialize an empty dictionary (`d1`) to store the frequency of each character using `defaultdict(int)`.  
8. Loop through each character in the `content`:  
   - For each character `ch`, increment its corresponding frequency in the dictionary `d1`.  
9. Return the dictionary `d1`, which contains the frequency of each character in the file.  
10. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```

```


### OUTPUT


### RESULT

Commit message:

Update experiment number and add character frequency program
Added a Python program to count character frequency in a file.

FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE.md, after:

# Exp.No:4d  
## FILES - FREQUENCY OF CHARACTERS IN A FILE

---

### AIM  
To write a Python program that reads a file and counts the frequency of each character in it.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Define the function `create_file()` that accepts two arguments:  
   - `file_path`: The path to the file.  
   - `content`: The string content to be written into the file.  
3. Open the file specified by `file_path` in write mode (`'w'`), and write the provided `content` into the file.  
4. Close the file (this is automatically done when exiting the `with` block).  
5. Define the function `character_frequency()` that accepts one argument:  
   - `file_path`: The path to the file whose character frequency is to be calculated.  
6. Open the file specified by `file_path` in read mode (`'r'`), and read its content into the variable `content`.  
7. Initialize an empty dictionary (`d1`) to store the frequency of each character using `defaultdict(int)`.  
8. Loop through each character in the `content`:  
   - For each character `ch`, increment its corresponding frequency in the dictionary `d1`.  
9. Return the dictionary `d1`, which contains the frequency of each character in the file.  
10. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```python
from collections import defaultdict
def create_file(file_path, content):
    with open(file_path, 'w') as file:
        file.write(content)
def char_frequency(file_path):
    freq = defaultdict(int)
    with open(file_path, 'r') as file:
        content = file.read()
        for char in content:
            freq[char] += 1
    return freq
```


### OUTPUT
<img width="1183" height="394" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/10e968a7-e766-48ad-97ac-e2d3d698a3da" />

### RESULT
Therefore, the output is the example to write a Python program that reads a file and counts the frequency of each character in it.
